Zoe: The God-Kind of Life. A Bible Study

ZOE, a Greek word for life used multiple times in the Bible means eternal
life or "The God-kind of life." The rich abundant divine nature of God;
His fullness of love, joy, power, and ability.



When you get born-again, this abundant life and nature of God is imparted
into your spirit from God.

"For God so loved the world that He gave His one and only Son, that
whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life." John
3:16

"But these are written that you may believe that Jesus is the Messiah,
the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name."
John 20:31

"Very truly I tell you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent
me HAS eternal life and will not be judged but has crossed over from
death to life." John 5:24



God recreates you by taking away your old spirit and giving you a brand
new spirit created in His own image and likeness so that you become His
child and His direct offspring. Zoe is the essence of salvation.

"Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, the new creation has come: The old
has gone, the new is here!" 2 Corinthians 5:17

"I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you; I will remove
from you your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh." Ezekiel
36:26



God is divine. Since "like begets like," when you become God's child, you
share in this divine nature of God.

"Flesh gives birth to flesh, but the Spirit gives birth to spirit." John
3:6

"Through these He has given us His very great and precious promises, so
that through them you may participate in the divine nature..." 2 Peter
1:4a



Christ who is life brings us life eternal. So, zoe is not only about
spending eternity with God in heaven. It includes the promise of heaven
but it is so much more! In Christ, we have zoe right now. Those who belong
to the Son of God have the right to eternal life here on earth. Zoe starts
here and continues for eternity.

"The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy; I have come that
they may have life, and have it to the full." John 10:10

"Whoever believes in the Son HAS eternal life, but whoever rejects the
Son will not see life, for God's wrath remains on them." John 3:36

So as a born-again believer, REJOICE and REST in the knowledge that you
are a new creation and you have the life of God - eternal life - in you.



What does zoe do for you?

- The zoe life of God brings life to man to make him divine and a new
specie. 2 Corinthians 5:17, 2 Peter 1:4

- Zoe enables us to know God and have an intimate relationship with Him.
Without His divine nature, we cannot fellowship with God. But because
of zoe, we can commune directly with Him. John 17:3

- Because of zoe, we are able to reflect Christ; the one true light. As
his life (zoe) is the light of men, when we receive him, spiritual
darkness is dispelled. John 1:4, 1 John 5:11,12

- When you partake of God's divine nature, you become His vessel of love
on earth. God is love, therefore as recipients of His divine nature, we
become His love ambassadors. He has poured His love into our hearts and He
has given us His Spirit of love. 2 Timothy 1:7, Romans 5:5

- Zoe enables us to work in God's divine power and authority. 2 Timothy
1:7, Ephesians 1:19, Ephesians 3:20

- Zoe sets us free from the devil, sin, and eternal damnation. Through
your life and conduct, others will be able to tell that you have the life
of God in you. John 5:24, Romans 8:2, 1 John 5:18

- Zoe empowers us to live life abundantly. To the full. Free from
oppression and sickness. John 10:10



Conclusion

Although we have the awesome powerful life of God within us, it will only
impact our lives to the extent that we allow it to. Therefore, we must
choose daily to walk by faith in light of these precious promises given to
us by God.

If you have not yet accepted Jesus as Lord, my prayer is that you open
your heart to receive God's free gift of eternal life.

And if you already have the gift of eternal life, I pray that the eyes of
your heart will be enlightened so that you will know that you have the
life and nature of God in you. I also pray that you will allow God's
divine nature and power within you to dominate you and overflow through
you to others. AMEN!!!
